
The Battle of Neighborhoods | Business Proposal | Introduction
Introduction:
The purpose of this Project is to help people in exploring better facilities around their neighborhood. It will help people making smart and efficient decision on selecting great neighborhood out of numbers of other neighborhoods in Indore(M.P.), India

Lots of people are migrating to various states of India and needed lots of research for good housing prices and reputated schools for their children. This project is for those people who are looking for better neighborhoods. For ease of accessing to Cafe, School, Super market, medical shops, grocery shops, mall, theatre, hospital, like minded people, etc.

This Project aim to create an analysis of features for a people migrating to Indore(M.P.) to search a best neighborhood as a comparative analysis between neighborhoods.

It will help people to get awareness of the area and neighborhood before moving to a new city, state, country or place for their work or to start a new fresh life.

Problem Which Tried to Solve:
The major purpose of this project, is to suggest a better neighborhood in a new city for the person who are shiffting there. Social presence in society in terms of like minded people. Connectivity to the airport, bus stand, city center, markets and other daily needs things nearby.

The Location:
Indore is the most populous and the largest city in the Indian state of Madhya Pradesh.It serves as the headquarters of both Indore District and Indore Division. It is also considered as an education hub of the state and has campuses of both the Indian Institute of Technology and the Indian Institute of Management.The city is distributed over a land area of just 530 square kilometres (200 sq mi), making Indore the most densely populated major city in the central province. It comes under Tier 2 cities in India.

Foursquare API: This project have used Four-square API as its prime data gathering source as it has a database of millions of places, especially their places API which provides the ability to perform location search, location sharing and details about a business.

Work Flow:
Using credentials of Foursquare API features of near-by places of the neighborhoods would be mined. Due to http request limitations the number of places per neighborhood parameter would reasonably be set to 100 and the radius parameter would be set to 500.

Clustering Approach:
To compare the similarities of two cities, I decided to explore neighborhoods, segment them, and group them into clusters to find similar neighborhoods in towns and cities like Depalpur and Indore. To be able to do that, we need to cluster data which is a form of unsupervised machine learning: k-means clustering algorithm.

Libraries Which are Used to Develope the Project:
Numpy: Library to handle data in a vectorized manner

Pandas: For creating and manipulating dataframes.

Folium: Python visualization library would be used to visualize the neighborhoods cluster distribution of using interactive leaflet map.

Scikit Learn: For importing k-means clustering.

JSON: Library to handle JSON files.

Geocoder: To retrieve Location Data.

Beautiful Soup and Requests: To scrap and library to handle http requests.
